[kjobctl] Add documentation for Slurm mode (#3012)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: cmd/experimental/kjobctl/docs/run_slurm.md

# Run a Slurm Job on Kubernetes

This page demonstrates how to run a Slurm job on a Kubernetes cluster using Kjob.

## Before You Begin

Ensure the following prerequisites are met:

- A Kubernetes cluster is operational.
- The [kjobctl](installation.md) plugin is installed.

## Slurm Mode in Kjob

> This mode is specifically designed to support Slurm, a highly scalable cluster management and job scheduling system. Although Kjob does not directly incorporate Slurm's components, it simulates Slurm behavior to facilitate a smooth transition for users. By translating Slurm concepts such as nodes into Kubernetes-compatible terms like pods, Kjob ensures that users familiar with Slurm will find the Kjob environment intuitive and easy to use. The addition of the Slurm mode to the ApplicationProfile in Kjob aims to replicate the experience of using the sbatch command in Slurm as closely as possible, thereby enhancing user satisfaction and efficiency in managing cluster jobs within a Kubernetes context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mode is specifically designed to offer a compatibility mode for [Slurm](https://slurm.schedmd.com/) jobs. Kjob does not directly incorporate Slurm's components.
Instead, it simulates Slurm behavior to facilitate a smooth transition for users.
By translating Slurm concepts such as nodes into Kubernetes-compatible terms like pods, Kjob ensures that users familiar with Slurm will find the Kjob environment intuitive and easy to use.
The addition of the Slurm mode to the ApplicationProfile in Kjob aims to replicate the experience of using the sbatch command in Slurm as closely as possible, thereby enhancing user satisfaction and efficiency in managing cluster jobs within a Kubernetes context.
```

In general, please try to split paragraphs in multiple lines, so it's easier to comment.

Author: Got it. Thanks

| --cpus-per-task     | Specifies how many CPUs a container inside a pod requires. |
| -e, --error         | Specifies where to redirect the standard error stream of a task. If not passed, it proceeds to stdout and is available via `kubectl logs`. |
| --gpus-per-task     | Specifies how many GPUs a container inside a pod requires. |
| -i, --input         | Specifies what to pipe into the script. |
| -J, --job-name=<jobname> | Specifies the job name. |
| --mem-per-cpu       | Specifies how much memory a container requires, multiplying the number of requested CPUs per task by mem-per-cpu. |
| --mem-per-gpu       | Specifies how much memory a container requires, multiplying the number of requested GPUs per task by mem-per-gpu. |
| --mem-per-task      | Specifies how much memory a container requires. |
| -N, --nodes         | Specifies the number of pods to be used at a time - parallelism in indexed jobs. |
| -n, --ntasks        | Specifies the number of identical containers inside of a pod, usually 1. |
| -o, --output        | Specifies where to redirect the standard output stream of a task. If not passed, it proceeds to stdout and is available via `kubectl logs`. |

> | --partition         | Specifies the local queue name. |

Reviewer: link to the Kueue concept page

| $SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_MAX        | Job array’s maximum ID (index) number. |
| $SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_MIN        | Job array’s minimum ID (index) number. |

## Example

The following example demonstrates a use case for running a Python script.

See [config/samples](../config/samples) for the full samples used in this section.

### 1. Create Slurm Template

First, you need to create a template for your job using the `JobTemplate` kind. This template should specify the container image with all the dependencies to run your task. Below is an example of a template to run a Python script.

```yaml
apiVersion: kjobctl.x-k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: JobTemplate
metadata:
  name: sample-slurm-template
  namespace: default
template:
  spec:
    parallelism: 3
    completions: 3
    completionMode: Indexed
    template:
      spec:
        containers:
          - name: sample-container
            image: python:3-slim
        restartPolicy: OnFailure
```

Once you have created your template, you need an `ApplicationProfile` containing `Slurm` and your new template in the supported modes as shown below:

```yaml
apiVersion: kjobctl.x-k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationProfile
metadata:

>   name: sample-profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: slurm-profile
```

  namespace: default
spec:
  supportedModes:
    - name: Slurm
      template: sample-slurm-template
      requiredFlags: []
```

Then, create the ApplicationProfile by running:

```bash
kubectl create -f config/samples/application_profile.yaml
```

> ### 2. Load the Python Script

Author: @mwielgus WDYT?

> ### 2. Load the Python Script

Reviewer 2: Let's separate the steps. First create a volume with the script but mention that in real life it should be a shared file system (nfs or alike) and using config map is only for illustration purposes.

Then mention volume bundle.

> ### 2. Load the Python Script

Author: Done, thanks!

| $SLURM_GPUS                  | Number of GPUs requested (in total). |
| $SLURM_NTASKS                | Same as -n, --ntasks. The number of tasks. |
| $SLURM_NTASKS_PER_NODE       | Number of tasks requested per node. |
| $SLURM_NTASKS_PER_SOCKET     | Number of tasks requested per socket. To be supported later. |
| $SLURM_NTASKS_PER_CORE       | Number of tasks requested per core. To be supported later. |
| $SLURM_NTASKS_PER_GPU        | Number of tasks requested per GPU. To be supported later. |
| $SLURM_NPROCS                | Same as -n, --ntasks. See $SLURM_NTASKS. |
| $SLURM_NNODES                | Total number of nodes (actually pods) in the job’s resource allocation. |
| $SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE        | Number of tasks to be initiated on each node. |
| $SLURM_ARRAY_JOB_ID          | Job array’s master job ID number. For now, same as $SLURM_JOB_ID. |
| $SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_COUNT      | Total number of tasks in a job array. |
| $SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_MAX        | Job array’s maximum ID (index) number. |
| $SLURM_ARRAY_TASK_MIN        | Job array’s minimum ID (index) number. |

## Example

The following example demonstrates a use case for running a Python script.

> See [config/samples](../config/samples) for the full samples used in this section.

Author: Done.

```yaml
apiVersion: kjobctl.x-k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationProfile
metadata:
  name: slurm-profile
  namespace: default
spec:
  supportedModes:
    - name: Slurm
      template: sample-slurm-template
      requiredFlags: []
```

Then, save the file as `application_profile.yaml` and create the ApplicationProfile by running:

```bash
kubectl create -f application_profile.yaml
```

> Note: This setup process, including the creation of the JobTemplate and ApplicationProfile, only needs to be completed once and can be applied to subsequent Python script executions.

### 2. Prepare the Python Script for the Job

Before loading the Python script for use with the pods, it's crucial to consider how the script will be made accessible. 

For the purposes of this tutorial, we'll utilize a ConfigMap to store and pass the Python script. While this method simplifies the setup and is suitable for demonstration purposes, for a scalable setup, using NFS or a similar shared file system is necessary.

#### Creating a ConfigMap with Your Python Script

> Create a file named `sample_code.py` and add your Python script. For example:

Author: Yes, that was added already here, in line 131: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/blob/af6f4512162217b07b6df7c6bfe969b59d042efd/cmd/experimental/kjobctl/docs/run_slurm.md?plain=1#L131

> Create a file named `sample_code.py` and add your Python script. For example:

Reviewer 2: Ahh, ok
